I'm going to show you how to make a
caramel and turn it into a praline now
in my pan here I've got some castor
sugar and I'm melting it over a high
heat you can see that it started to melt
at the edges become a bit golden now the
important thing we're making a caramel
like this it's not to get your spoon in
at the moment otherwise you end up with
a wooden spoon stuck with caramel so
need to shake the pan a little to
disperse the sugar and make sure that
it's all melting evenly but remember to
be careful because this is really hot
sugar you can see I'm getting some nice
golden color on there this is a really
good non-stick pan as well so when it
comes to the end when I want to turn out
my caramel it's all going to come out
really nice and easily now the thing to
do when you're making a caramel like
this is to have all your equipment ready
at the start because it moves quite
quickly so I've got my baking tray here
which I've greased with a little bit of
oil and that's ready for at the end what
I want to tip my caramel and my praline
out onto it and I've got a palette knife
here again also greased with a little
bit of oil just so if I need to smooth
out my praline or anything right now I'm
ready to go
now I'm nearly ready to go with my sugar
so at this stage I'm going to tip my
nuts in now I haven't brown these nuts
to begin with I'm just going to do it in
the pan it's so hot that they're gonna
toast in there so it just cuts out of
stage for you again just gently swirl
that around I want to get all my nuts
coated on both sides and get that last
little bit of sugar melted you can see
I've got a nice really golden color here
now if your caramels nice and dark and
golden already and a little bit of sugar
hasn't melted just lift the pan off the
heat like I'm doing that'll just slow it
down and give you a chance to work some
of that sugar in now as I said you don't
really want to get a spoon and when
you're mixing but at the end if you need
to just to get everything coated
together use a metal spoon that again
you've oiled a little bit which should
stop the sugar sticking to it and if any
sugar sticks to anything you just need
to put it in some hot water and let it
melt off so I've got one last little bit
of sugar too now
I've got really good color on this this
is going to be a really nice flavor when
it's cooled and hardened my nuts are
golden and toasted so at this stage I'm
ready to tip my praline out so be very
careful this is very hot
taking it over to my baking sheet and
I'm gonna just gently carefully tip this
out covering all my nuts with that
lovely sugary caramel and then at this
stage I'm gonna just spread my nuts out
a little bit with my palette knife so
they're evenly through the caramel once
you've done this don't touch it it's
incredibly hot you need to wait for this
to cool and Harden I'd leave it for an
hour so you don't want to run the risk
of getting burnt when you touch it so
just leave it in a cool place and it's
going to become really hard and brittle
and then what you can do is use it
however you want so I've broken some
into some shards I've got here
I literally just snap this with my hand
once it cooled otherwise get your
rolling pin in and give it a bit of a
bash on the tray and it should come off
easily because you've oiled your baking
sheet and literally just peels off so
I've got these beautiful shards like
this of golden hard caramel with nice
toasted nuts and I'd use this if I was
making so I was making a creme brulee or
something like that and I didn't want to
do my sugar at the last minute because I
had guests or something pop a couple of
shards on this on the top it looks
really nice and you get the crunch the
other thing you can do either with some
of it up in a food processor literally
again just broken it into pieces popped
it in a food processor until I get this
kind of praline caramel crumb this is
the sort of thing I'd used if I wanted
to make praline flavored ice cream so
I'd fold this through the custard or you
can use this just a sprinkle over
dessert maybe over a nice pavlova with
cream if you wanted a bit of an extra
crunch so that's how you melt sugar to
make a caramel and turn it into a nutty
praline
you